>> Mike: All right, last concept here.
This one's gonna throw people for
a little bit of a loop so
we're gonna spend extra time
on it function overloading.
So in JavaScript, because arguments are,
there's no such thing as disambiguating
between functions having the same name
by argument signature, there's no
such thing as that in JavaScript because
function arguments are really for
our benefit only as developers, so that
we don't have to reach into the arguments
object and grab the zero thing,
first thing, the second thing.
They're just names that we can use in
our code, there's no enforcement of
like passing all of this arguments along
and you must required parameter here.
In TypeScript there is, and so
in TypeScript you can have multiple
function heads and one implementation
that takes care of it all.
So in this case, we've got the ability
to add two number together
or add two strings together, and
we'll basically do the parsing for you.
Along the way, so you provide arrayed
x and we will call percent internally.
So you may ask like why on
earth would I want to do this?
Well, I'm gonna paste that in so
we can play with it because
it's a little more useful to once we
can see how typescript sees this code.
>> Mike: Okay, so first off,
you'll note that I have two
function heads here, and
then I have a third one,
which is a full implementation.
If I call add you know that I have
only two options to pick from,
so that bottom implementation
although it is most flexible if you
look at the shape there we
talk about union types, right?
It almost like it's the union of
the function signatures above, right?
It's almost like this shape here is what
you would get if you had to accommodate
either of these two.
That's not an accident, right,
this is flexible enough to accommodate
either of these two, but
when I'm actually using it,
I don't get access to that very
flexible implementation there.
I just get the signatures
that are above what that
means is unlike this signature here it
seems to indicate I cannot do this.
>> Mike: Sorry I can do that,
I cannot do this.
>> Mike: So, x and y,
it would seem, right,
that does match this shape, right?
I'll even pass the radix in so, take
the default parameter out of the picture.
So, basically, without this,
it's saying you're trying to use the two
argument thing, right, so I expect number
number that's two arguments number number.
As soon as I add this third
argument in it's says,
that's three argument variables well now
I want this first thing to be a string.
So this let's us put additional
constraints up here that say
look you can use it this one way or
the other way or this 3rd way.
And now secretly I'm going to
implement something that can
internally handle all those cases and
disambiguate between them.
But when you consume this you're only
allowed to use those specific ways.
So this in fact, this is not just
accounting for these two shapes.
It accounts for shapes like this.
Right, that shape that I just added,
this one,
that was not there in the beginning,
bu that also would make this happy, right.
So here like now it's gonna be fine,
that's fine.
But if we say nope, you're not allowed
to pass me one number in one strain,
even though down here it would seem
to allow it Now we're back to that.
So here's how this works.
You want to define function
heads from most specific
to least specific, right,
most specific to least specific.
Just think of it, like you were
to design almost a case switch.
Basically imagine that the way this works
under the hood is that you're gonna go
through and you're gonna basically
look like for the first one you find.
Then you're gonna hit that most specific
first, then fall back to a generic one.
That is the mental model here.
If you follow that model
this will not surprise you.
In here, let me make sure
I'm not skipping ahead of my
slides.
>> Mike: Okay,
so effectively, I've shown you
what I was about to animate there.
I do want to show you one other thing now.
We can do something like this
>> Mike: So is anyone surprised by this?
Versus
>> Mike: So
this is the type of x over here string or
number obviously.
Just string.
Just number.
So type of has this ability to work with
whatever the type of an object is,
and sort of help you filter through.
In fact, if we did something like this
>> Mike: Although
this may make other things happy.
Now it's gonna say number or object.
It's almost like, you handled the string
case above and I'm in an else.
And therefore in this branch of the code
You could only be one of these two types.
This is really nice when
working with unit types.
Cuz ultimately, particularly in
a case like this, where yeah,
we have multiple function heads, but
inside this function here, were we not
basically passing stringifying potential
integers and passing them into parseInt,
we found one single code path
that will work for everything.
But were we not doing this, we could
absolutely have done some branching.
So I can re-implement this if we like and
say, let's see if it's smart enough to
do this, I've never tried it before.
So if typeof x is a string,
>> Mike: We can do something like this.
We don't need to wrap that in a string
anymore even though parseInt wants,
it wants a string
absolutely wants a string.
We're giving it one.
That's the only thing it can be.
Yeah, it's not quite smart enough to know
that our function heads only allow for
the case where they are both strings or
both numbers.
So, but no worry,
we can just do something like this
>> Mike: And
that effectively, like,
within this block, we've basically cast,
we've implicitly cast Y to
a string does that make sense?
Without this, we've left open
the possibility that y is a number.
So we're just working within
the context of this function here.
It's not taking into account
that we have these heads.
So if we had one number and one string,
like parseInt could be unhappy here,
but now we're saying, all right,
we're asserting both of those.
>> Speaker 2: The act of
asking causes that to happen.
>> Mike: It knows it's in a branch of code
that can only be run in the event
that Y is a string, and so
Y is now a string within that plot.
Pretty cool, right?
[LAUGH] And now, down here X can
still be a string or number.
Y can still be a string or number.
So watch this, else if,
when we do something like this,
>> Mike: And will return x plus y.
See if that works.
Nope.
It's not going to want that.
[SOUND] We need to return here.
>> Mike: So we'll just leave it like That,
no, how would we fix that,
>> Mike: So that will work,
this will work.
>> Speaker 2: So
do you even need the f on line time,
because isn't that if technically taking
cared by the top two decoration things.
>> Mike: If I did not let you
look at those, so here's the rule,
like we have to design
this function according to the constraints
of the arguments passed in.
So here's how we could do it there's
another way we could do this.
We could use generics.
So what we need, what you're asking it for
here is a type constraint where x and
y are the same thing, correct?
So I can make this work, absolutely.
Let's make it work.
And here's how we would do it.
We'd say the function, add,
It has a template parameter and
we need this template parameter and
we could actually say, it is t where t is,
all right this'll work.
So, we would now say, this is a type T.
This is of type T as well.
And at this point, [SOUND] See,
now it's going to say that.
T
>> Mike: And
then now down here.
It doesn't like that.
>> Mike: So
we can be assured that now x and
y have the same type.
>> Mike: Yeah it would be hard to do that.
So the reason that we're doing
this here essentially is that like
yes we can be assured
without this other else here.
We can be assured that
we are in a situation
where
>> Mike: Where either x or y or
both is not a type string, but
that is because it's only taking
this into account up here.
It does not take into account the function
heads that are used to ultimately
call this thing.
But the point is, there is gonna
be some branching in here unlike
now you can control different
call signatures, and
then this one that's gonna make you feel
uncomfortable, the implementation where it
is an overly loose,
broad set of constraints,
you'll have to write a function that
works in that set of constraints.
However it'll be that is not actually
available for other code to consume.
That is just designed to handle
things that will come in through
the much more constrained
function heads that you design.
This is known as function overloading.
>> Mike: So
we could do like,
we'd have to do something like this.
So if x and y are numbers why
is it complaining at me now?
See else, I'd have to do that.
>> Mike: And
then up here.
>> Mike: That'll work.
>> Mike: Does everyone understand how
that works?
You ready to play with it?
[LAUGH] Okay.
So.
One more thing, sorry.
You could not do something like this.
>> Mike: Or so in this situation, there is
no way to disambiguate between those.
So you have to, when you're picking
the multiple function heads,
like how on earth would you know which
of these you were trying to invoke?
>> Speaker 2: The one that returns,
if you cast a variable that
you're defining it to as a string
>> Mike: Yeah.
You could, let's see, could we do it?
My lord, there you go.
It could return a number or string.
All right, I guess you can't do that,
I don't know why you would.
Let me express it as advice
them rather than a constraint.
>> Mike: Make these distinct and
you should treat these almost like, and
the type system is
a constraint system right?
We're saying you may only set
values of this particular type.
You may only point this variable
to values of this particular type.
This is another constraint in this type
system saying yes, I have this sort of
broad function here, but you may only
invoke it in these specific ways.
And you must pass three variables,
which the first two are strings and
the last one is a number, or two numbers,
and no other combination will work,
despite what you read into here
where you can mix and match.